# Consul

> **note**
> 
> new in version 0.1

[Consul](https://www.consul.io/) is used in the project to coordinate
service discovery, specifically using the inbuilt DNS server.

## Upgrading

> **note**
> 
> new in version 1.0

Mantl 1.0 includes Consul v0.6.3. If you are running Mantl 0.5.1, you'll
need to run the `playbooks/upgrade-consul.yml` playbook before
reprovisioning your cluster to 1.0 in order to ensure a smooth upgrade.

Upgrades from releases prior to Mantl 0.5.1 have not been tested.

## Variables

You can use these variables to customize your Consul installation.
You'll typically want to set at least consul\_dc,
consul\_servers\_group, and consul\_gossip\_key. These variables are
roughly sorted from most commonly used to least.

  - consul\_dc  
    If set, consul will advertise this datacenter (default `dc1`)

  - consul\_dc\_group  
    The group to look in for the local datacenter. Using the Terraform
    plugins, this should be `dc=dcname`, and it will default to that
    with the current datacenter name.

  - consul\_servers\_group  
    Group to configure join IPs from. For example, if this value is
    `consul_servers`, IPs will be calculated from the hosts in that
    group and added to the list of servers to join. Defaults to
    `role=control`.

  - consul\_log\_level  
    The level of logging for the Consul agent. The available log levels
    are "trace", "debug", "info", "warn", and "err".
    
    Default: warn

  - consul\_gossip\_key  
    If set, this is used to encrypt gossip communication between nodes.
    This is unset by default, but you *really should* set one up. You
    can get a suitable key (16 bytes of random data encoded in base64)
    by running `openssl rand 16 | base64`.

  - consul\_advertise  
    IP address Consul will advertise as available for other nodes to
    connect to. Defaults to the value of `private_ipv4` (from terraform
    inventory).

  - consul\_is\_server  
    Whether this node should be a server (`true`) or an agent (`false`).
    (default `true`)

  - consul\_bootstrap\_expect  
    The number of servers to expect to join the cluster before
    bootstrapping. This is used in place of a two-phase bootstrap (where
    one node bootstraps and then restarts as a regular server.) This is
    set by default to be the number of servers in
    consul\_servers\_group, but can be changed where the situation
    warrants (for example if you have *many* servers, you may want to
    set this to be a low number like 3.)

  - retry\_join  
    Automatically generated by the calculation described in
    consul\_servers\_group, but you can override it for custom behavior.

  - consul\_enable\_tls  
    If (`true`) use TLS to verify the authenticity of servers and
    clients. (default `false`)

  - consul\_ca\_file  
    File name of a PEM-encoded certificate authority. Only used when
    consul\_enable\_tls is `true`.

  - consul\_cert\_file  
    File name of a PEM-encoded certificate. Only used when
    consul\_enable\_tls is `true`.

  - consul\_key\_file  
    File name of a PEM-encoded private key. Only used when
    consul\_enable\_tls is `true`.

